git stash(it is the temporary folder to keep the files and folders  to bin,so that the folder can add a particular folder)

git clone(if you want to send the remaining files to be send to github you should clone from remote to local then it will sync with the local after that we can add our files

before adding your files all ways sync up the file with the remote repository by using clone command



Jenkins:
    continuous integration practices and continuous delivery orchestration
    open source
    combination of maven ,jenkins,junit is jecaco 

continuous integration:(CI)
      is a development practice that requires developers to integrate code into a shared repository several times a day.
      It is process of running your tests on non developer(testers machine) automatically when someone pushes new code into the source repository.

Jenkins:
     is a self contained open source automation server which can be used to automate all sorts of tasks related to building,testing,delevering or deploying s/w.
     it can be installed through native sys packages ,docker,or even run standalone by any machine with a JRE installed.
     open source automation server

Jenkins Architecture:
        master slave Architecture.
        jenkin(master)----->windows(slave)
                      ----->Linex(slave)

        jenkin server is a web dashboard which is nothing but powered from a war file default run on 8080 ports.
        by default one node is configured and another is running.

Why jenkins:
  To integrate more frequently detect errors quicker,improve quality and reduce cost.
  coodinate the running of tasks as part of work flows.
complile ,test and package,deploy,scrip and install.

Jenkins Terminalogy:

Job:
    a unit of work for a project
view:
    user defined collection of jobs or a workflow.
master:
    the central jenkins master does job scheduling 
slave:
    executes one or more jobs within slots
workspace:
    the working area where job is to be done
Plugin:
user defined collection of jobs or workflow

How to install jenkins

How do you trigger your build whenever you commit
github
settings
webhooks
edit

echo "hello world"
echo "Job Name--->" $(JOB_NAME)
echo "build number---->"$(BUILD_NUMBER)

https://github.com/

build trigger click the checkbox build whenever....

maven in 5 minutes(refer)
maven surefile plugin

     